Our next reading this morning is going to come from the book of Hebrews.
We're reading Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25.
Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25.
Therefore, my friends, since we have confidence to enter the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is through his flesh,
And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us approach with a true heart and full assurance of faith with our heart sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering for he who has promised is faithful.
And let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of sun.
but encouraging one another all the more as you see the day approaching.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
One of the perks for working for the church is I get to come to the church anytime I want to.
In fact, many a day, though many of you, I've had phone calls with some of you all that are long and winding.
And so when I'm on the phone with somebody, I don't sit still in my office.
I have to move.
So there's been some days when I've been on the phone with somebody and I'll find myself walking through the sanctuary just over and over again.
Some days on particularly stressful days or stressful phone calls, I just walk that way.
There's been a couple of times, you know we have a creek back there?
I've wound up at the creek a couple of times.
So, you know, I like to walk and talk.
I like to walk and talk.
But I love being able to just come into the sanctuary when the owner particularly
Pretty day.
Sometimes the light will come through that sting.
Let's win it right there just perfectly.
Just perfectly.
You know, it'll kind of start falling around here and just kind of working its way back towards the back.
Our, some of y'all know this, but Heart Hall, where we have Wizard out Live Mills, that was our first sanctuary before we built this building in 99.
And on certain days, when the sun's setting just right,
it'll come through that window back there and come through that red cross in just a stunningly beautiful fashion.
That's why we're talking in the bulletin about all the stuff of the colors because there's something beautiful.
As Meg said, we are gifted and on a rainy day like today, I know a lot of folks are watching online and I'm glad for that.
But there is something beautiful about being in this place, being in
Church.
But church is interesting.
I don't know if y'all know this, but our church has a South Campus.
Did y'all know that?
And not our South building over there.
We're talking about a South Campus.
It's a, it's a, it's a campus that's only active on Sundays.
And usually I found it to be most active on Sundays between say noon and about one o'clock.
Our South Campus is, it's all old Kenton Road.
It's out of Marigos.
because I can't tell you how many Sundays I go to a merry-goes for lunch, and I'll walk in and say, I don't know, 15 church people.
So Dana, I don't count that on our worship statistics for the conference.
Don't worry, I'm not counting, I'm not double dipping, I'm not counting it twice.
But I joke all the time about how that's our south campus.
And I say it jokingly, but there is some beauty to that seeing
Church folk outside of church, you know?
Well, one of the things I love seeing is when I see on social media or things like that, seeing church folk that are eating dinner together, or going to a ballgame together, are just living life together.
Doing life together is an overused church phrase that's said far too often, but there is something beautiful
something beautiful about seeing the church community existing beyond just this location, but existing wherever we as the church find ourselves.
And so that goes to the importance of, yes, physical worship is important as the writer to Hebrews says, do not neglect the gathering together or sort of prone to do.
It's important to be physically gathered together.
But I know we have friends watching online right now who would love to physically be here, but cannot.
And I praise God that there are opportunities for individuals to remain connected to our church even when they can't physically be here.
There's something good about the church and all the places that exist and all the places that God grants us to be together.
Whether that be here in our sanctuary, whether that be in America, whether that be in a ballgame, whether that be wherever.
That's beautiful.
We are wrapping up a little series today that talks about how it is that we know God.
And we've talked about these things.
Genesis, sorry, I will, you know, Kelly read, Kelly read today about being salt and light from the scripture.
I preached in that passage a few weeks back.
We're called to be salt and light.
We're called to be different.
Jesus prays in John 17, three.
For us to know eternal life, and that's knowing the Father and the Son who He has sinned.
So our ultimate faith is grounded in knowing Jesus.
Well, how do we know Jesus?
I believe the three best ways we can experience Jesus fully are through reading our Bible, praying, and then going to church.
And now, I told you, I got this saying from a spiritual director of mine who would always say, read your Bible, pray, and stay in love with God's people.
Well, stay in love with God's people doesn't fit good in a bumper sticker.
So I kind of changed that.
So I kind of shortened it to go to church.
But go to church isn't a perfect phrase either.
Because going to church implies that the totality of our faith is found in this location.
So when I say go to church, that's not really, that's not really the right phrase either.
Really, I mean be the church.
Be the church.
When we are the church, something beautiful happens.
And friends, the church is imperfect.
Don't know if you know that or not.
It doesn't happen here, but some people gossip in church.
I know we don't do that here.
Some churches have dissension.
in fighting.
Some churches have all manner of things.
The church will never be a perfect entity the side of glory because the church is made up of imperfect people.
The church is made up of imperfect people.
And so if we're expecting to find perfection in the church, the only perfection you're ever going to find in the church is the perfection of Jesus Christ.
You'll never find the perfection of people.
You'll only find the perfection of Jesus Christ.
I want to read to you a quote from Screwtape Letters, if I saved it in here and I hope I hadn't deleted it already.
I want to get this, you know, I like to wing my serious Lewis quotes, but sometimes I wanted to write this one down because it was so good.
But Lewis says, if you don't know Screwtape Letters,
It's a book that Lewis wrote where it's one senior devil in hell trying to keep a junior devil from growing.
And in this, in this, this letter, he writes to the younger devil named, named Wyrmwood.
You know, next group tapes the younger devil, Wyrmwood's the uncle.
Wyrmwood writes, he says, never let them see the enemy in his body as we see it.
He says, do not let them see it with banners unfurled victorious throughout the ages.
Use his neighbors as our allies.
If he sees the body as the churches, we see it that he will be enthralled by it.
But if so happens, the person on his pew happens to have squeaky shoes or bad breath.
When he's handed a liturgy,
that neither the greeter nor himself understands.
When he sees the church made up of people that are naive and imperfect, we will use that against the enemy to say that the faith can't possibly be true.
I love clearly says this.
He says, never let him, the Christian, see the churches, we see it.
The devil does not see the church in its imperfections.
The devil sees the church as the undefeated, glorious body of Christ that has withstood the testing of hellfire throughout centuries.
We see the church as the imperfect people who sit beside us.
We see the church in its imperfections.
The devil sees it for what it is.
We see it in its fallen nature because we are all fallen.
So if we can, if the devil can get us to see the church,
as nothing more than imperfect people who hurt our feelings sometimes, then he's got us where he wants us.
I love that.
I love that because we can forget.
We can forget how glorious and how beautiful the church is because of so many things.
So I wanted to tell you a little story about church.
Not a story, just something I believe.
And I think something that resonates for us here at St. Matthew's and stuff that I've been playing around with.
Those that come to my Wednesday night, Bible studies know that my Wednesday night, Bible studies sometimes is my lab where I experiment with things and I kind of see a certain concepts work.
And if y'all look at me like I'm crazy, I think, well, I did work.
So let's not go there.
So I wanted to tell you a story about a pastor that some of you may know and remember and love.
You want to hear from our pastors, Bill Macholily.
Bill was the pastor here at St. Matthew's, of what, 2000 or so, I think, roughly.
From there he went to Tupelo.
And Bill remains and is a respected leader, both in the United Methodist Church, but in our annual conference.
He's a retired bishop now.
And in 2004, Bill was at the floor of General Conference, the great gathering of United Methodist from all over the world, when the church was in one of its many fights.
And Bill gave a speech that's always resonated with me where he talked about this great, moderate, Methodist middle that is not swung by either extremes, but is this great, great middle of individuals who may or may not always agree with each other.
but who want to live with each other and serve with each other and love each other and be the church together.
And I've always thought that was a beautiful concept.
And I've always thought that's one of the things that I want to base my ministry around is this great.
I believe fully that there's more that unites us than divides us.
I believe that.
I'm a moderate is what I call myself.
I'm a moderate and I want to speak to that.
Because we hear the word moderate and we think wishy-washy.
You know, do we think right?
We think wishy-washy.
Oh, those martyrs that can't make up their minds.
A moderate is not someone without strong beliefs.
Moderates have, many of us, myself included, have strong beliefs on issues of theology, have strong beliefs on issues of politics.
I don't have very strong beliefs on various things, but what makes a moderate, a moderate is the fact that we will not sacrifice relationships for those beliefs.
I have strong beliefs about many things, strong beliefs about a whole bunch of stuff, but I love you more than I love my particularities of theology or politics.
And I will not allow my particular use of theology or politics to divide me from you.
Because if I am only surrounded by those who agree with me on everything, then what good is that?
I'll never grow.
I'll never learn.
I'll never be made holy.
I think the path of Jesus
calls us to a path of discipleship, but a path of reconciliation with all people.
There are not many places in our world, friends.
There are not many places left in the United States of America and left in the church in America, where individuals can have differences of theological or political opinions and still say, I love you more than that.
and still say, I will stand by you, even if we disagree.
And by the way, you know who is the forefather of that movement?
John Wesley.
Wesley said, on the essentials unity, on the non-essentials diversity, but in all things charity.
I believe friends that our world
is in need of this.
I think we are tired.
I think we are so tired of the polarization and the division that is infected our world.
I think we're tired of the polarization and ideology that sometimes infects the church because friends, the church can be about nothing more than Jesus Christ.
The church cannot be about politics.
The church cannot be about ideology.
There's a million places outside this place that could talk about politics.
There's a million places outside this church that could talk about what divides us.
There are a million places where we can make our stand and say, here's what I'm going to do.
But friends, the only thing I will stand on is the cross of Christ.
And I will not allow temporal earthly things that will cease
to be the foundation of the church.
The church is one foundation.
Is Jesus Christ her king?
I challenge you to be that church.
I challenge you to be that church built on Christ alone.
My desire, my dream for St. Matthews, I believe there are hundreds
maybe thousands of people in the metro area looking for this.
Looking for a place to put aside these divisions.
As important as they may be, because remember, I'm not saying you can't have opinions.
Let me be clear.
I'm not saying you can't believe important things about doctrine or even politics.
I'm not saying that.
But I'm saying they cannot be the foundation of our life.
It can only be Jesus Christ.
I still have hope for what Bill called that great Methodist moderate's middle because I think that is the path upon which Christ calls us to be.
That is the path that our world needs.
And that is the only way that's going to heal our nation, heal our world and heal our hopes is that if we say, yes, we can believe what we believe and I'm not discouraging anyone from believing their opinions or their thoughts.
This is, I am not calling for uniformity.
I'm calling for unity.
There's a difference.
No one should be cast aside for their politics or their doctrine.
We need less of that, though.
We need a whole lot more Jesus.
And to go from preaching to Madeleine, we need each other because we make each other holy.
Relationships are a means of grace.
You know, I mentioned John 17, three, John 17 earlier.
I talked about this last week in intersection.
That's Jesus high priestly prayer.
And then Jesus high priestly prayer.
He's praying for the apostles of that day.
He's praying for us as well.
And twice in that prayer, he prays for unity.
Twice.
He prays for the unity of the apostles.
They praise for the unity of the church that is to come.
For twice in this last prayer, he prays for that.
Why is it unity sometimes the first thing we throw out?
It seemed to matter a lot to Jesus.
It shouldn't matter to us because our unity makes us stronger because those folk who are different than us, it's hard to love them sometimes.
But that's the test of our faith, friends.
Doris Daly, this Catholic social reformer, said once.
She said, you only love God.
as much as you love the person, you love the least.
James said, how can you say you love God who is unseen, yet you hate your neighbor who is seen?
I've heard someone else feel like this.
How will people believe a God they can't see loves them?
When a church they can see doesn't seem to like them.
The test of our faith is not loving the folks who agree with this, that's easy.
Love the folk who disagree with us.
So if you're a woke liberal, the test of your faith is, can you love the MAGA Republican?
And if you're a MAGA Republican, the test of your faith is, can you love a woke liberal?
And if we build our house on the world, we can't.
Not only can we, can we not?
We're told we shouldn't.
Because they are the problem, whoever they are.
The friends, if we build our house on Jesus Christ, not only can we love them, we must love them.
Because Jesus says there are two types of folk in the world, our friends and our enemies, and we're called to love both of them.
I believe there are hundreds of people in the metro area.
who are dying for the freedom that comes from this type of thing.
So my challenge to you is the church.
My challenge to you is your pastor.
It's for us to live into this.
My dream for St. Matthew uses for everyone of this type of belief system to find theirself to our church.
There's a lot of folk out there that need who we are.
So my challenge for you is to go find them.
Me too.
And let's build this kingdom that God's building here for his glory.
We're called to be the church.
So we're called to be part of this community.
The way I put it is recalled to worship weekly.
Weekly worship, weekly small group daily service.
That's what I think it means to be part of the community is to value weekly worship.
I've joked with you before, you start reading the Bible through, you hit Leviticus and you tap out.
Leviticus is a book that might seem hard for us at our modern age, but you know what, Leviticus keeps hitting over and over and over and over again?
Worship.
When you sacrifice do this, on this day do this.
When you do this, do this.
Leviticus is an entire book about worship.
Now, it's a little bit different from how we worship, but it's a book about worship.
Worship matters to us, as the writer at the Hebrew says, don't neglect the gathering together of the brethren, like worship.
This matters.
Whether you're here in person or online, this matters.
Weekly worship.
Weekly small group.
Because here's the good thing about worship.
Worship is great, but you know where life change happens in small groups.
And that's Wesleyan.
Wesley was all about class meetings and societies and bands.
Wesley called the Methodist of his day and of our day to be connected to each other through small groups.
Because it's the small groups you get in each other's business.
It's small groups where you go deep in Scripture.
It's small groups where you hold each other accountable.
It's small groups where you live together.
Now that small group could be a Sunday school.
It could be a Bible study.
It could be a service group like the choir.
It could be anything, but we can't do this Christianity thing alone.
So we're called to worship weekly.
We're called to be in small group weekly and we're called to serve daily.
As the great quote says, Christ has no hands, but yours.
He has no feet, but yours.
How will the world know we love them unless we love them?
How the world know there's a Savior who loves them, unless we take that good news of Christ to them.
We have a mission, y'all.
I think we have something special here that is not found in many places.
I think we don't, we struggle with what that means, but we know it, don't we?
But I think the fact that we are seeking to build a kingdom here, the phrase that you used in
church stuff is a purple church, to church with some Republicans and some Democrats, to church with some liberals and some conservatives, to church with all manner of opinions.
And so they call it a purple church, but you know what I've always called that church?
The United Methodist Church, because that's who we are.
That's who we are, because it's about Jesus.
It's about Jesus.
Nothing else.
So I'm not calling you to not believe what you believe or not hold fast what you hold fast to.
I'm just saying don't break relationship over it.
And don't find your hope in it.
Because my hope is found in nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness.
I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but holy lean on Jesus' name.
own Christ, the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand.
The name of the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit.
Let us pray.